---
title: Introduction to Videographic Storytelling
share: https://docs.google.com/open?id=14YJt2TmUelrYZbDXjvFVk0Us2ha59Lw281DrPm31QhU
layout: post
permalink: /video-1/
weight: 1
source-id: 14YJt2TmUelrYZbDXjvFVk0Us2ha59Lw281DrPm31QhU
published: true
---
# Lesson

## Objective(s):

By the end of the lesson, students will have experience creating storyboards and forming storyboards based on video.

## Overview:

This lesson introduces students to the importance of Storytelling through the lens of a motion camera.

### Expected Lesson Duration: 

Lesson is expected to last 2 days.

### Preparing to Teach this Lesson:

Videos to be Shown as Silent Films:

* 1: [The Lion's Cage ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mpjEyBKSfJQ&feature=youtu.be)

* 2:[ Life](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mWZ6b_I-Djg&feature=youtu.be)

* 3: [Affinity - 1912](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zjmRBUTapPA)

Storyboard Resources

- [Storyboard Information](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1krc-FNF7EGUvxVXCDLVW7KvX0cDvZehqQb5pXcirU2w/edit) for students who prefer to learn via writing vs. lecture

### Student Handouts:

Students should be given access to the resources provided in the lesson prep section. Students will need multiple hard copies of the [Storyboard Template](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B-fnzlPK8lcvcTNWUE96Q1BYQ0k/view)

### Lesson Procedure:

#### Introduction/Gain Attention

-  **Video of the Day**: The class will begin with an activity that will require students to write a brief story about the content or relation of a video presented by the instructor.

#### Project

-  After the completion of students journal entries the students will watch [The Lion's Cage](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mpjEyBKSfJQ&feature=youtu.be) as well as [Life](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mWZ6b_I-Djg&feature=youtu.be) with the audio muted.

  

-   After watching the films, students will try to recreate the film of their choice (one of the two films) in a storyboard format.

    

-   Transition from a video medium to a storyboard partition.

    

-   "What is a storyboard and why do I need one?" lesson in the form of a lecture or a class discussion, including:

	-   Clarity between the team

    

	-   Time (saves time and clarifies a timeline)

    

	-   Script (even if there is no dialogue--- recall the directives in the audio lesson)

    

	-   All professional videos have a storyboard 30s - 3hrs

    

	-   The storyboard comes before the video

    

	-   Concepts and composition (remember in the imagery unit, the students can recall the imagery shared folder with all the composition rules)

    

	-   Continuity of the project and serves as a checklist

    

	-   Subject descriptions and mannerisms

    

-   After the lecture, class discussion, or hybrid of the two, the instructor as well as the students should work on an example together.

    

	-  [Share this](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1krc-FNF7EGUvxVXCDLVW7KvX0cDvZehqQb5pXcirU2w) prior to collective example (Some kids work better with a written version)

    

-   Watch [Affinity-1912](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zjmRBUTapPA) and ensure that the students have at least one person in their group with the video on their device as well.

    

-   Walkthrough the shots and concepts of the video as you document them on your storyboard.

    

-   After each student has received the basics of storyboarding, they must now select one of the two short silent films and begin working.

### Outcomes

* Understanding of the use and importance of storyboards

    

* Identify and explain different components of a storyboard

    

* Implementing storyboards for a pre-existing video

    

* Ability to identify major shots and scenes that would warrant placement on the video's storyboard

    

* Ability to map the storyline of a film visually, without use of the film's audio providing context and dialogue

### Content of Lesson

* **Acquiring Key Concepts****:** gaining the skills crucial to viewing video/film mediums such as identifying major shots and concepts of a video. Experience with filling storyboards according to the concepts and major shots of a film, gaining knowledge pertaining to the format, purpose, and use of storyboards.

* **Engaging in Experiential Learning**: collaboratively creating a storyboard for a film, independently creating a storyboard for a chosen silent film.

* **Building Proficiencies**: identifying important scenes within a film that qualify for placement on a storyboard; proper format and usage of storyboards, identifying major or key concepts in films/video.

* **Connecting with STEM Professionals****:** view a video or listen to a professional discussing their use of storyboards and the role they play in their work.

* **Assessing Learning****:** have students walk through the storyboard they completed independently and explain their reasoning for the order and/or scenes they included.

### Closure and Review

* Reiterate the importance of storytelling in media.

    

* The importance of scaffolding and recycling in digital media.

    

* Digital archive

    

## Higher Level Thinking Skills Noted    

* Reverse engineering at work.

      

## Relevance/Rationale:

The art and skill of storytelling that will be practiced in this class will help the students reasoning skills, cognitive constructive capabilities, and develop character. The creation of a narrative requires the student to develop a logical order from a sequence of events. In order for the student to develop a meaningful arrangement of events the student must begin to grow their narrative reasoning skills. These skills can evolve through the consumption and dissection of narrative literature, of a mixed medium. While developing of their narrative reasoning skills the students should/ will become more empathetic to others, wise to deciphering the true purpose of the story, and become comprehensive thinkers of their own circumstances. The students are finally at the age in which they are beginning to construct their own narratives. We, as educators, want them to be exposed to a great diversity of narratives in order mature those narrative reasoning skills. The more developed their narrative reasoning skills are the more they get from a story (deeper perspective). The more advanced their skills, the more likely they are to rationalize why this character chose a particular path, place themselves in the characters shoes, and develop their own character.

## Explorations and Extensions:

Can storyboards be used for other applications? If so what ones, and would the benefits differ?

## Assessment Criteria for Success:

Content knowledge, student knowledge, and appropriate resources are aligned to instructional outcomes. student learning will be assessed throughout the lesson via question responses and correlation to the project.

Students will have successfully met the outcomes when fundamental questions about the importance of storytelling and its role in videography can be observed through their writing and reflections of their peers work. Also questions about their current disposition are taken into consideration when they see media should begin to arise. Also a fluid and respectful use of time, along with an essay that is fluid, easy to follow, and retains its essentials as an ELA. 

## Modifications/Accommodations and Access for All:

A simpler version of Imagery and storytelling is already prepared if there are students that need to re-review the information. Also, if students need an alternate assignment due to their personal disposition to the material, alterations will be easily made.

## Implementation Feedback: 

Students can receive feedback on their completed storyboards from their peers and instructor. Students can then share how they felt about the project with their instructor; as well as what they gained from it, how it could have better benefited them, etc.

## Other Important Course Development Information

### Best Practices:

#### Exemplary Previous student work: 

