---
title: Multimodal Scripted Radio Show
share: https://docs.google.com/open?id=1F2c59zXdZcmrV48E3rwMRKk2M6IHZVxYmQ14mn5HGso
layout: post
permalink: /sonic-3/
source-id: 1F2c59zXdZcmrV48E3rwMRKk2M6IHZVxYmQ14mn5HGso
published: true
---
# Lesson

## Objective(s):

Students will begin to develop sonic stories. Integrating writing with sound to produce something new.

## Overview:

This lesson begins to incorporate Sound into storytelling. This lesson introduces the students to the tools and practices in audio creation and recording.

### Expected Lesson Duration: 

Lesson is expected to last 2-3 days.

### Preparing to Teach this Lesson:

* [Audacity software download](http://www.audacityteam.org/) that students will continue to use to produce and manipulate their sounds.

* [Audacity software documentation](http://manual.audacityteam.org/#tutorials) that students and instructors should become familiar with and learn how to navigate.

### Student Handouts:

- Students should be directed to [Audacity's software documentation](http://manual.audacityteam.org/#tutorials) for when students need to troubleshoot while using Audacity, but this does not need to be printed.

### Lesson Procedure:

#### Introduction/Gain Attention

-  **Sound of the Day:** The class will begin with an activity that will require students to write a brief story about the content or relation of a sound presented by the instructor.

####  Project

-   The students will be producing a radio show, much like that of the past Orson Welles, between 3-6 minutes long

    

-   Prior to starting the radio show the students must describe their premise and have their ideas approved first

    

-   After their ideas have been approved the students must write and time map their scripts

    

-   The scripts must include:

    

	-   Cues

    

	-   Dialogue

    

	-   Sounds and descriptions of sounds

    

	-   No more than 2 music tracks

    

	-   NO overly repetitive actions

   

-   After the students have completed their scripts, they will have to do a reading and time their scripts prior to the actual implementation/recording of their radio shows

### Outcomes:

* Develop and demonstrate time management skills required to complete a quality product within a limited amount of time

    

* Demonstrate increased proficiency in Audacity during the recording and editing of the radio show

    

* Exercise and strengthen creative writing and innovation skills during the development of the show's premise and script

    

* Ability to organize and execute the recording stage of the project with respect to the timed script, staying within time limits and following the script precisely

    

* Understanding and demonstration of creating well prepared scripts with cues, dialogue, sounds, description of sounds, times, etc.

    

* Understanding of the importance and use of well prepared scripts

### Content of Lesson

* **Acquiring Key Concepts****:** becoming familiar with the process of proposing and justifying a project concept, creating a sketch and timemap, and gaining more experience with Audacity and implementing the appropriate sounds for a given storyline.

* **Engaging in Experiential Learning****:** creating and developing a radio show from the initial theme/focus to the polished, finished recording of a 3-6 minute show.

* **Building Proficiencies****:** practicing recently acquired Audacity skills by creating and editing sounds using the software, incorporating other mediums, such as writing, into sound for a storyline.

* **Connecting with STEM Professionals****:** view a video or listen to a podcast of a professional radio show host describing what all goes into their shows, what they have learned, what is important for the show's success, etc.

* **Assessing Learning****:** have students justify their proposal for their radio show, and identify all of the guidelines and requirements set by the instructor within their completed radio show.

### Closure and Review

* Expectations of projects and their due date.

    

* Explain the importance of diversity in the storytellers and writers due to experiences and how it shapes our stories.

    

## Higher Level Thinking Skills Noted

* Answer the essential questions thoroughly and discuss.

## Relevance/Rationale:

The art and skill of storytelling that will be practiced in this class will help the students reasoning skills, cognitive constructive capabilities, and develop character. The creation of a narrative requires the student to develop a logical order from a sequence of events. In order for the student to develop a meaningful arrangement of events the student must begin to grow their narrative reasoning skills. These skills can evolve through the consumption and dissection of narrative literature, of a mixed medium. While developing of their narrative reasoning skills the students should/ will become more empathetic to others, wise to deciphering the true purpose of the story, and become comprehensive thinkers of their own circumstances. The students are finally at the age in which they are beginning to construct their own narratives. We, as educators, want them to be exposed to a great diversity of narratives in order mature those narrative reasoning skills. The more developed their narrative reasoning skills are the more they get from a story (deeper perspective). The more advanced their skills, the more likely they are to rationalize why this character chose a particular path, place themselves in the characters shoes, and develop their own character.

  

## Explorations and Extensions:

What was meant by the question, "Why does music move us?" Can the term, move, be replaced with a more scientific term? If so, what term?

## Assessment Criteria for Success:

Content knowledge, student knowledge, and appropriate resources are aligned to instructional outcomes. student learning will be assessed throughout the lesson via question responses and correlation to the project.

Students will have successfully met the outcomes when fundamental questions about the importance of storytelling and its role in imagery can be observed through their writing and reflections of their peers work. Also questions about their current disposition are taken into consideration when they see media should begin to arise. Also a fluid and respectful use of time, along with an essay that is fluid, easy to follow, and retains its essentials as an ELA.

  

## Modifications/Accommodations and Access for All:

A simpler version of Imagery and storytelling is already prepared if there are students that need to re-review the information. Also, if students need an alternate assignment due to their personal disposition to the material, alterations will be easily made.

## Implementation Feedback: 

Students can receive feedback on their radio show from their peers and instructor. Students can then share what they felt about the project with their instructor; as well as what they gained from it, how it could have better benefited them, etc.

## Reflections:

To be completed upon the end of lesson.

## Other Important Course Development Information

### Best Practices:

#### Exemplary Previous student work: 

