---
title: Game Development in Action Pt. 1
weight: 3
---

## Contact Information:

<Name First Last><Email><work#>

## Unit Description:

During the Game unit of Digital Storytelling, students will put computational thinking and narrative reasoning to work withduring the creation of a unique, dynamic story.

## Lesson:

### Objective(s):

After the daily meme, the students will be producing their game utilizing multiple digital mediums.

### Overview:

This lesson places computational thinking and narrative reasoning in action with the creation of a dynamic story.

### Expected Lesson Duration:

1 days

### Preparing to Teach This Lesson:

There are no resources necessary for this lesson.

### Primary Subject Area and Grade Level:

Digital Storytelling 9-10


### Class Information:

[Next Generation Science Standard(s) Addressed:](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B-fnzlPK8lcvM19rcTZlYThnRnc)

HS-ETS1-4.

  

[Interdisciplinary Connection(s) Common Core:](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B-fnzlPK8lcvdEl6LTJPbG5xNm8)

[CCSS.ELA-LITERACY.WHST.9-10.2.C](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/9-10/2/c/)

[CCSS.ELA-LITERACY.WHST.9-10.1.C](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/9-10/)


### Lesson Procedure:

#### Introduction/Gain Attention
    
- **Video of the Day:** The class will begin with an image that is hopefully game related, and the student and have them write a story about what is just off the boundary of the picture.- This will be known as the daily meme. These will be placed in the students journals.

#### Project
-   After the daily meme the students will begin to work on their resources to complete their games.
    
-   Sounds and images need to be generated by the student, not copied from another source or hotlinked.
    

-   Hotlinking, or using a resource on someone else's server without their permission, is a bad idea. Not only is it freeloading on someone else's bandwidth, but the media could go away at any time – or be replaced by an angry owner with something you weren't expecting!
    

-   After the student has created their images and sounds for their story the students should create a public folder in google drive in order to share those images through twine– and put references to them in their story.
    
-   Once you know what your image's URL(in Google drive you can just copy the URL) is, having it display in your story is as simple as entering the correct HTML code to show up:
    

-   <[img](http://december.com/html/4/element/img.html)  src="myPictureOfSomethingDank.goo.com"  width="500"  height="300">
    

-   The width and height part of the code control the size of the image on the page. If you leave them off, then it will display the image in the dimensions that the image is.
    
-   Audio and sound effects are easy to embed to:
    
-     <audio src="myDankSounds.goo.com" autoplay>
    

-   The autoplay attribute causes it to play as soon as the passage it is in is displayed.
    
-   And lastly if the students need it video:
    

-     <video src="myDankVideo.goo.com"  width="640"  height="480">  
    </video>
    
-   I wouldn't tell them about it because the students loose the art of storytelling trying to incorporate useless video clips but some have great ideas of how to incorporate a video so i would share it with just those students

## Outcomes
-   Demonstrate adequate knowledge and skills required to produce original assets such as images and sounds
    
-   Implement computational thinking skills during the development of the project
    
-   Strengthen and exercise creativity during the development of unique assets
    
-   Demonstrate appropriate and insightful constructive criticism
    
-   Ability to appropriately receive constructive criticism and give genuine consideration to criticism    

##   Content of Lesson
- **Acquiring Key Concepts:** further developing narrative reasoning, creating unique resources relevant to the storyline. Practice and experience with documentation for stories and video games. Grasping the purpose and correct use of flowcharts.

- **Engaging in Experiential Learning:** creating unique sound and imagery resources designed specifically for storylines written by the students themselves.

- **Building Proficiencies:** creating unique sound and imagery resources using previously attained skills and knowledge.

- **Connecting with STEM Professionals:** view a video or listen to a professional discussing their process of creating resources for their written or animated stories, or to be used in their games.

- **Assessing Learning:** have students explain why they created the resources they did, how they compliment or relate to their storyline and game, what softwares, tools, or techniques they used to create the resources, how the storyboards and flowchart influenced the resources they created, etc.
    
##  Closure and Review
-   Reiterate the importance of storytelling in media, describe the amount of written work that is consumed by media outlets and the amount of recycled material that continues to be recirculated due to the lack of new material.
    
-   Explain the importance of diversity in the storytellers and writers due to experiences and how it shapes our stories.
    

## Higher Level Thinking Skills Noted
    
-   Developing a dynamic story
    
-   Adapting stories due to character developments
    
-   Perception due to appearance
    

## Relevance/Rationale:

The art and skill of storytelling that will be practiced in this class will help the students reasoning skills, cognitive constructive capabilities, and develop character. The creation of a narrative requires the student to develop a logical order from a sequence of events. In order for the student to develop a meaningful arrangement of events the student must begin to grow their narrative reasoning skills. These skills can evolve through the consumption and dissection of narrative literature, of a mixed medium. While developing of their narrative reasoning skills the students should/ will become more empathetic to others, wise to deciphering the true purpose of the story, and become comprehensive thinkers of their own circumstances. The students are finally at the age in which they are beginning to construct their own narratives. We, as educators, want them to be exposed to a great diversity of narratives in order mature those narrative reasoning skills. The more developed their narrative reasoning skills are the more they get from a story(deeper perspective). The more advanced their skills, the more likely they are to rationalize why this character chose a particular path, place themselves in the characters shoes, and develop their own character.

 
## Explorations and Extensions:

Does the dynamic aspect of storytelling take anything away from the message that the author may be trying to deliver?

## Assessment Criteria for Success:

Content knowledge, student knowledge, and appropriate resources are aligned to instructional outcomes. student learning will be assessed throughout the lesson via question responses and correlation to the project.

Students will have successfully met the outcomes when fundamental questions about the importance of storytelling and its role in imagery can be observed through their writing and reflections of their peers work. Also questions about their current disposition are taken into consideration when they see media should begin to arise. Also a fluid and respectful use of time, along with an essay that is fluid, easy to follow, and retains its essentials as an ELA.

  
## Modifications/Accommodations and Access for All:

A simpler version of Gaming through twinery is already prepared if there are students that need to re-review the information. Also, if students need an alternate assignment due to their personal disposition to the material, Alterations will be easily made.

## Implementation Feedback:

Students can receive feedback on their resources from their peers and instructor. Students can then share how they feel about the project with their instructor; as well as what they gained from it so far, how it could have better benefited them, etc.

## Other Important Course Development Information

### Best Practices:

Exemplary Previous student work:

<!--stackedit_data:

eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTA1MTkwNDUyMSwtODk5NTY5NTI3XX0=

-->
